[Cookbook] - fix component_architecture (#2025)
symfony/ux: ux.symfony.com/cookbook/component_architecture.md

description: Rules and pattern to work with components
image: images/cookbook/component-architecture.png
tags: 
    - JavaScript
    - Symfony
---

## Introduction

In Symfony UX exist two packages: [TwigComponents](https://symfony.com/bundles/ux-twig-component/current/index.html) and [LiveComponent](https://symfony.com/bundles/ux-live-component/current/index.html).
Those two packages allow you to create reusable components in your Symfony application.
But the component architecture is not exclusive to Symfony, it's a design pattern that can be applied to any programming language or framework.

> And the js world already implement this architecture for long time, on many different frameworks like React, Vue, or Svelte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And the JavaScript world already implements this architecture for long time, on many different frameworks like React, Vue, or Svelte.
```

> So, a set of rules and pattern has already be defined to work with components. This is why Symfony UX try to be as close as possible to those rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, a set of rules and patterns has already be defined to work with components. This is why Symfony UX tries to be as close as possible to those rules.
```

Reviewer 2: (and just after:

```diff
- So let's see what are those rules!
+ So, let's see what those rules are!
```

```twig
<twig:Card>
    <twig:Icon name="info"/>
    <twig:Button>
        <twig:Icon name="close" />
    </twig:Button>
</twig:Card>
```

> So here we have a Card component, and we give to the content of this component two others components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So here we have a Card component, and we give to the content of this component two other components.
```

### Independence

> This is a really important rule, and not obvious. But your component should leave on his own context,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a really important rule, and not obvious. But your component should live on his own context,
```

> it should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take one component into a page, to another and it should works exactly the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take one component into a page, to another and it should work exactly the same.
```

> it should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take one component into a page, to another and it should works exactly the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take a component from a page to another and it should works exactly the same.
```

> This rule make your component truly reusable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This rule makes your component truly reusable.
```

***How does it work into Symfony?***

Symfony keeps the context of the page into the context of your component. So this your own responsibility to follow those rules.

> But notice that if there are conflicts between a variable from the context page and your component, your component context override the page context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But notice that if there are conflicts between a variable from the context page and your component, your component context overrides the page context.
```

</twig:Card>
```

> So here we Card component, and we give to the content of this component two others components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So here we have a Card component, and we give to the content of this component two others components.
```

Not sure about the 1st sentence tho

### Independence

This is a really important rule, and not obvious. But your component should leave on his own context,

> he should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take one component into a page, to another and it should work exactly the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it should not be aware of the rest of the page. You should be able to take one component into a page, to another and it should works exactly the same.
```

This rule make your component truly reusable.

***How does it work into Symfony?***

> Symfony keep the context of the page into the context of your component. So this your own responsibility to follow this rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Symfony keeps the context of the page into the context of your component. So this your own responsibility to follow those rules.
```

(or "this rule")

> But notice that if there are conflict between a variable from the context page and your component, your component context override the page context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But notice that if there are conflicts between a variable from the context page and your component, your component context override the page context.
```

***How does it work into Symfony?***

> In Symfony you 2 different approach to handle state. The first one is to use stimulus directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Symfony you have two different approaches to handle state. The first one is to use stimulus directly
```
